#labels Featured
== Why do you use a zipped Django package? ==

The most important reason is that a zipped Django package loads twice as fast as an unzipped Django package. Also, by zipping Django you have more space for your own files. Actually, we consider using some automated procedure to automatically zip your whole application into blocks of 10MB each before uploading it to the production server.

== Should I use app-engine-patch or django-helper? ==

app-engine-patch is much more complete and more active than django-helper. Also, it's much easier to use (just download and unzip - no need to make a Django package yourself). There really is no reason to use django-helper and follow complicated installation steps.

== Now that Django 1.0 is integrated in App Engine should I still use app-engine-patch? ==

Yes! The Django 1.0 version that is integrated in App Engine does *not* run out-of-the-box! Basically, you only get the template system. You can't use django.forms, django.contrib.auth, django.contrib.admin, and so on. Also, load times aren't faster because only a minor part of Django is pre-loaded into memory. You still have to load the rest which is what [http://code.google.com/p/googleappengine/issues/detail?id=1695 slows it down]. Actually, our zipped Django package might even load faster than App Engine's unzipped package.

== Is there a full-text search solution for App Engine? ==

You can use [http://gae-full-text-search.appspot.com/ gae-search] which is free for non-commercial use. It's still affected by datastore limitations, but it also provides a few workarounds for them.